[Clock] Add `DatePoint` (#18932)
symfony/symfony-docs: components/clock.rst

    use function Symfony\Component\Clock\now;

>     // Get the current time as a DatePoint instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Get the current time as a :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\DatePoint` instance
```

Reviewer 2: This is a code example, we cannot use rst syntax here.

    The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\ClockAwareTrait` was introduced in Symfony 6.3.

.. _clock_date-point:

The ``DatePoint`` Class
-----------------------

When using the Clock component, you manipulate instances of
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\DatePoint`. The main purpose of this

> class is is that it fully leverages the Clock component. Indeed, when creating a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class is to leverage the Clock component to get the "current time". When creating a new
```

``DatePoint`` object, the date and time are being fetched
from the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\Clock` class. This means
that if you did any changes to the clock as stated in the
:ref:`usage section <clock_usage>`, it will be reflected when creating
a new ``DatePoint``. This can be particularly useful when
:ref:`writing time-sensitive tests <clock_writing-tests>`.

Creating a new ``DatePoint`` is as straightforward as creating other date
objects::

    use Symfony\Component\Clock\DatePoint;

    // create a DatePoint set at the current date and time
    $now = new DatePoint();

    // you can specify a timezone
    $withTimezone = new DatePoint(timezone: new \DateTimezone('UTC'));

>     // you can also create a DatePoint from a reference DateTimeImmutable
>     $immutable = new \DateTimeImmutable();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // you can also create a DatePoint from a reference date
```

>     $fromImmutable = new DatePoint(reference: $immutable);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $relativeDate = new DatePoint('+1month', reference: $referenceDate);
```

Author: Clearer!

Also, ``DatePoint`` offers a stricter alternative to ``DateTimeImmutable`` by
having stricter error handling, as well as stricter return types. ``DatePoint``
actually extends ``DateTimeImmutable``, which means you can widely use it in
your application if you already type against ``DateTimeImmutable`` across your

> code base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``DatePoint`` extends ``DateTimeImmutable`` so that you can use it seamlessly everywhere a ``DateTimeImmutable`` is needed. In addition ``DatePoint`` offers stricter return types and provides consistent error handling across versions of PHP, thanks to polyfilling PHP 8.3's behavior on the topic.

Reviewer: we could link to https://wiki.php.net/rfc/datetime-exceptions on the last sentence maybe?

Author: That's a great idea, I added the link

    The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\ClockAwareTrait` was introduced in Symfony 6.3.

.. _clock_date-point:

The ``DatePoint`` Class
-----------------------

> When using the Clock component, you manipulate instances of
> :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\DatePoint`. The main purpose of this
> class is to leverage the Clock component to get the "current time". When
> creating a new ``DatePoint`` object, the date and time are fetched
> from the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\Clock` class. This means
> that if you did any changes to the clock as stated in the
> :ref:`usage section <clock_usage>`, it will be reflected when creating
> a new ``DatePoint``. This can be particularly useful when
> :ref:`writing time-sensitive tests <clock_writing-tests>`.
> 
> Creating a new ``DatePoint`` is as straightforward as creating other date
> objects::
> 
>     use Symfony\Component\Clock\DatePoint;
> 
>     // create a DatePoint set at the current date and time
>     $now = new DatePoint();
> 
>     // you can specify a timezone
>     $withTimezone = new DatePoint(timezone: new \DateTimezone('UTC'));
> 
>     // you can also create a DatePoint from a reference date
>     $referenceDate = new \DateTimeImmutable();
>     $relativeDate = new DatePoint('+1month', reference: $referenceDate);
> 
> ``DatePoint`` extends ``DateTimeImmutable`` so that you can use it seamlessly
> everywhere a ``DateTimeImmutable`` is needed. In addition ``DatePoint`` offers
> stricter return types and provides consistent error handling across versions of
> PHP, thanks to polyfilling `PHP 8.3's behavior`_ on the topic.

Reviewer 2: I propose doing a slightly different order, the fact that `DatePoint` is "just" a `DateTimeImmutable` is important for a user, so we should mention it early imho.

Besides that, we can be a bit less verbose. Implementation details are great for PR discussions, usage details are what matters for documentation :)

```suggestion
The Clock component uses a special :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\DatePoint`
class. This is a small wrapper on top of PHP's :phpclass:`DateTimeImmutable`.
You can use it seemlessly everywhere a :phpclass:`DateTimeImmutable` or
:phpclass:`DateTimeInterface` is expected.

The ``DatePoint`` object fetches the date and time from the
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\Clock` class. This means that if you did any
changes to the clock as stated in the :ref:`usage section <clock_usage>`, it
will be reflected when creating a new ``DatePoint``.

You can also create a new ``DatePoint`` instance directly, for instance when
using it as a default value::

    use Symfony\Component\Clock\DatePoint;

    class Post
    {
        public function __construct(
            // ...
            private \DateTimeImmutable $createdAt = new DatePoint()
        ) {
        }
    }

The constructor also allows setting a timezone or custom referenced date:

    // you can specify a timezone
    $withTimezone = new DatePoint(timezone: new \DateTimezone('UTC'));

    // you can also create a DatePoint from a reference date
    $referenceDate = new \DateTimeImmutable();
    $relativeDate = new DatePoint('+1month', reference: $referenceDate);

.. note::

    In addition ``DatePoint`` offers stricter return types and provides consistent
    error handling across versions of PHP, thanks to polyfilling `PHP 8.3's behavior`_
    on the topic.
```

Author: Updated, thank you Wouter!

    The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\ClockAwareTrait` was introduced in Symfony 6.3.

.. _clock_date-point:

The ``DatePoint`` Class
-----------------------

When using the Clock component, you manipulate instances of
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Clock\\DatePoint`. The main purpose of this
class is to leverage the Clock component to get the "current time". When

> creating a new ``DatePoint`` object, the date and time are being fetched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
creating a new ``DatePoint`` object, the date and time are fetched
```

:ref:`writing time-sensitive tests <clock_writing-tests>`.

Creating a new ``DatePoint`` is as straightforward as creating other date
objects::

    use Symfony\Component\Clock\DatePoint;

    // create a DatePoint set at the current date and time
    $now = new DatePoint();

    // you can specify a timezone
    $withTimezone = new DatePoint(timezone: new \DateTimezone('UTC'));

    // you can also create a DatePoint from a reference date
    $referenceDate = new \DateTimeImmutable();
    $relativeDate = new DatePoint('+1month', reference: $referenceDate);

``DatePoint`` extends ``DateTimeImmutable`` so that you can use it seamlessly
everywhere a ``DateTimeImmutable`` is needed. In addition ``DatePoint`` offers
stricter return types and provides consistent error handling across versions of
PHP, thanks to polyfilling `PHP 8.3's behavior`_ on the topic.

Also, ``DatePoint`` offers a stricter alternative to ``DateTimeImmutable`` by
having stricter error handling, as well as stricter return types. ``DatePoint``
actually extends ``DateTimeImmutable``, which means you can widely use it in
your application if you already type against ``DateTimeImmutable`` across your

> code base.

Reviewer: this paragraph should be removed now
